Blog: Glorias first Brink epoch (#143)
bitcoinbrink/website: _posts/2025-01-04-glorias-brink-epoch.md

category: "News"
description: We’re delighted to celebrate Gloria Zhao's four year milestone of outstanding work on Bitcoin Core at Brink.
---
<div class="header-images">
  <img src="/assets/images/gloria-zhao.jpg" alt="Gloria Zhao celebrates 4 years as a Brinkie">
</div>

Today, we’re delighted to mark a special milestone for Brink engineer Gloria
Zhao: four years of outstanding work on Bitcoin Core at Brink. From her start as
the very first Brink [fellow](/programs) to her key role as a
Bitcoin Core maintainer and member of Brink’s grant committee, Gloria has
pioneered significant advancements in Bitcoin’s development—and we couldn’t be
more proud.

## Taking a Chance on Bitcoin (and on Brink)

Graduating from UC Berkeley in December 2020, Gloria had the pick of career
paths including a coveted job offer to join Google full time after interning
there the summer prior. Instead of taking the safe career path, she took a
chance on Bitcoin development, and thanks to the visionary support of our
[founding sponsors](/sponsors)—and early contributions from the
[Human Rights Foundation and
Spiral](/blog/2020/12/01/gloria/)—joined Brink as our first

> fellow.

Reviewer: imo think this is a bigger deal
```suggestion
grantee.
```

Author: changed

peers, resulting in the package relay project making the top priority projects
list for the Bitcoin Core project for three consecutive releases (26.0, 27.0,
28.0).

Much of Gloria’s work was included in the recent [Bitcoin Core 28.0
release](https://bitcoinops.org/en/bitcoin-core-28-wallet-integration-guide/),
including one parent one child (1P1C) relay, [BIP 431](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0431.mediawiki) TRUC transactions, and 1P1C
package RBF. These features have garnered enthusiastic reception from Lightning
engineers as well as other developers building on Bitcoin.

## Beyond Mempool and Policy

But Gloria’s work goes beyond the keystone projects that she helped drive
forward. She has provided thousands of review comments on the Bitcoin Core
GitHub repository over the years and authored dozens of other pull requests to
improve the security and reliability of the codebase including wallet and P2P
work. Her role as a Bitcoin Core maintainer also involves a myriad of thankless
maintenance and administrative tasks that are important for the project,
including fixing bugs and creating releases.

> Gloria’s thoughts on becoming a Bitcoin Core maintainer at the time:

Author: noted the year

"*Being a maintainer means I'll... focus on the health of Bitcoin Core and help
shoulder some of the responsibilities of the other maintainers... I'm relieved
to find Brink understanding and supportive, not because of the "new title," but
out of the recognition that the Bitcoin ecosystem is built on software that
requires sustained, long-term effort to maintain, regardless of the coin's
price.*"

## Advocacy, Mentorship, and Education

Beyond code, Gloria’s impact is felt in the broader Bitcoin community through

> her prolific advocacy and mentorship:

Reviewer: If you're interested in a quote from 2023 self-eval:

The importance of advocacy and education is often understated. I limit this to 10-15% of my time, as there is an infinite supply of things to do. My framework is to allocate this time across a “funnel.” The top is spreading a message “the code needs work and runs on donations,” and the bottom might be recruiting somebody to work on Bitcoin Core and looking at PRs together.

Author: added!

category: "News"
description: We’re delighted to celebrate Gloria Zhao's four year milestone of outstanding work on Bitcoin Core at Brink.
---
<div class="header-images">
  <img src="/assets/images/gloria-zhao.jpg" alt="Gloria Zhao celebrates 4 years as a Brinkie">
</div>

Today, we’re delighted to mark a special milestone for Brink engineer Gloria
Zhao: four years of outstanding work on Bitcoin Core at Brink. From her start as
the very first Brink [fellow](/programs) to her key role as a
Bitcoin Core maintainer and member of Brink’s grant committee, Gloria has
pioneered significant advancements in Bitcoin’s development—and we couldn’t be
more proud.

## Taking a Chance on Bitcoin (and on Brink)

Graduating from UC Berkeley in December 2020, Gloria had the pick of career
paths including a coveted job offer to join Google full time after interning
there the summer prior. Instead of taking the safe career path, she took a
chance on Bitcoin development, and thanks to the visionary support of our
[founding sponsors](/sponsors)—and early contributions from the
[Human Rights Foundation and
Spiral](/blog/2020/12/01/gloria/)—joined Brink as our first grantee.

> ## A Package Relay Journey

Reviewer: Maybe Tackling Big Problems, which I think is the key point of this section.
```suggestion
## Tackling Big Problems
```

During Gloria's first year as a Brink fellow, she was mentored by Brink
co-founder John Newbery and moved to London to establish our office there. After
immersing herself in the Bitcoin Core codebase and coming up with her
[fellowship project
](/blog/2021/01/21/fellowship-project-package-accept/)in early
2021, she was ready to put forth the project to the community with her [Package
Mempool Accept and Package RBF
proposal](https://gnusha.org/pi/bitcoindev/CAFXO6=+cHyQKM2n9yn4EhwLZO+AUB0ZD81qWPxmpN27rjUoU3w@mail.gmail.com/)
in September of 2021.

Commenting on the motivation for her work these past 4 years, Gloria notes:

“*I work in a problem-oriented fashion, so all of the other mempool policy
proposals stem from the core problem of fixing pinning attacks in exogenous fee
bumping, which is a crucial tool in contracting protocols. Package Relay is
maybe the “flagship” proposal and certainly the biggest chunk of work, but the

> name is often a catch-all for anti-pinning proposals including TRUC.*”

Reviewer: (1) Move this to the top of the section
(2) Start with "Gloria is most known for her work in Package Relay and pinning attacks, which also chronicles the majority of her time at Brink. Commenting on the motivation for this long journey, Gloria notes:"

Author: Took this suggestion

Recognizing her momentum and expertise, Brink brought Gloria on as a grantee in

> 2022 to continue her work. That year she continued her P2P research, expanded

Reviewer: Maybe  "added Gloria to the permanent roster" or something, I think that's what you mean here? I was a grantee but had a temporary contract as a junior/fellow?

> 2022 to continue her work. That year she continued her P2P research, expanded
> the work to include fee bumping more generally, posted a discussion on RBF
> improvements to the [mailing
> list](https://gnusha.org/pi/bitcoindev/CAFXO6=LGbaur6XQrE+6a6mAAHXduOCXoWPTgPosxAG59ZkK6Gg@mail.gmail.com/),
> and posted a P2P protocol proposal which later became [BIP 331](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0331.mediawiki) to the [mailing
> list](https://gnusha.org/pi/bitcoindev/CAFXO6=JROe_9ih2h+_CCH-UbxehsM5RQ6YyNnPesEpveBEtdow@mail.gmail.com/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2022 to continue her work. That year she continued her research in pinning attacks and expanded
the work to include fee bumping more generally, led discussions on the Replace-by-Fee
problem space and potential improvements (documented on the [mailing
list](https://gnusha.org/pi/bitcoindev/CAFXO6=LGbaur6XQrE+6a6mAAHXduOCXoWPTgPosxAG59ZkK6Gg@mail.gmail.com/)),
and published her first P2P protocol [proposal](https://gnusha.org/pi/bitcoindev/CAFXO6=JROe_9ih2h+_CCH-UbxehsM5RQ6YyNnPesEpveBEtdow@mail.gmail.com/) (which later became [BIP 331](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0331.mediawiki)).
```

May 2022. That same year, she was named a Bitcoin Core maintainer by her peers,
an honor that speaks volumes about her technical skill and collaborative spirit.

In 2023, Brink continued support for Gloria and her work and, recognizing the
valuable technical perspectives she has on the Bitcoin Core project, also
invited her to join our grant committee to help evaluate funding applications.
Meanwhile, Gloria continued her work on package relay and v3 transaction
relay/TRUC, projects that would eventually encompass a whopping 53 pull requests
over the years. She also worked to achieve buy-in on her projects from her
peers, resulting in the package relay project making the top priority projects
list for the Bitcoin Core project for three consecutive releases (26.0, 27.0,
28.0).

> Much of Gloria’s work was included in the recent [Bitcoin Core 28.0

Reviewer: Maybe start this paragraph with something about 2024 being the year we saw the fruits of the labor, to make it clearer we have 1 paragraph per year

Author: Good idea, updated

release](https://bitcoinops.org/en/bitcoin-core-28-wallet-integration-guide/),
including one parent one child (1P1C) relay, [BIP 431](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0431.mediawiki) TRUC transactions, and 1P1C
package RBF. These features have garnered enthusiastic reception from Lightning
engineers as well as other developers building on Bitcoin.

> ## Beyond Mempool and Policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Maintenance and Security
```

---
title: "Celebrating Gloria's First Brink Epoch"
permalink: /blog/2025/01/04/glorias-brink-epoch/
layout: post
author: brink
name: "brink"
image: /assets/images/gloria-zhao.jpg
alt: Celebrating Gloria's First Brink Epoch
category: "News"
description: We’re delighted to celebrate Gloria Zhao's four year milestone of outstanding work on Bitcoin Core at Brink.
---
<div class="header-images">
  <img src="/assets/images/gloria-zhao.jpg" alt="Gloria Zhao celebrates 4 years as a Brinkie">
</div>

Today, we’re delighted to mark a special milestone for Brink engineer Gloria
Zhao: four years of outstanding work on Bitcoin Core at Brink. From her start as
the very first Brink [fellow](/programs) to her key role as a
Bitcoin Core maintainer and member of Brink’s grant committee, Gloria has
pioneered significant advancements in Bitcoin’s development—and we couldn’t be
more proud.

## Taking a Chance on Bitcoin (and on Brink)

Graduating from UC Berkeley in December 2020, Gloria had the pick of career
paths including a coveted job offer to join Google full time after interning

> there the summer prior. Instead of taking the safe career path, she took a
> chance on Bitcoin development, and thanks to the visionary support of our
> [founding sponsors](/sponsors)—and early contributions from the
> [Human Rights Foundation and
> Spiral](/blog/2020/12/01/gloria/)—joined us as the first engineer funded by Brink.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
there the summer prior. Instead of taking the safe career path, she took a
chance on Bitcoin development and, thanks to the visionary support of our
[founding sponsors](/sponsors)—and early contributions from the
[Human Rights Foundation and
Spiral](/blog/2020/12/01/gloria/)— Brink took a chance on her: Gloria joined us on January 4, 2021 as the first engineer funded by Brink.
```

## Tackling Big Problems

Gloria is most known for her work in package relay and pinning attacks, which
also chronicles the majority of her time at Brink. Commenting on the motivation
for this long journey, Gloria notes:

“*I work in a problem-oriented fashion, so all of the other mempool policy
proposals stem from the core problem of fixing pinning attacks in exogenous fee
bumping, which is a crucial tool in contracting protocols. Package Relay is
maybe the “flagship” proposal and certainly the biggest chunk of work, but the
name is often a catch-all for anti-pinning proposals including TRUC.*”

During Gloria's first year as a Brink fellow in 2021, she was mentored by Brink
co-founder John Newbery and moved to London to establish our office there. After
immersing herself in the Bitcoin Core codebase and coming up with her
[fellowship project

> ](/blog/2021/01/21/fellowship-project-package-accept/)in early

Reviewer: ```suggestion
](/blog/2021/01/21/fellowship-project-package-accept/) in early
```

(documented on the [mailing
list](https://gnusha.org/pi/bitcoindev/CAFXO6=LGbaur6XQrE+6a6mAAHXduOCXoWPTgPosxAG59ZkK6Gg@mail.gmail.com/)),
and published her first P2P protocol
[proposal](https://gnusha.org/pi/bitcoindev/CAFXO6=JROe_9ih2h+_CCH-UbxehsM5RQ6YyNnPesEpveBEtdow@mail.gmail.com/)
(which later became [BIP
331](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0331.mediawiki)). That same
year, she was named a Bitcoin Core maintainer by her peers, an honor that speaks
volumes about her technical skill and collaborative spirit.

In 2023, Brink continued support for Gloria and her work and, recognizing the
valuable technical perspectives she has on the Bitcoin Core project, also
invited her to join our grant committee to help evaluate funding applications.
Meanwhile, Gloria continued her work on package relay and v3 transaction
relay/TRUC, projects that would eventually encompass a whopping 53 pull requests
over the years. She also worked to achieve buy-in on her projects from her
peers, resulting in the package relay project making the top priority projects
list for the Bitcoin Core project for three consecutive releases (26.0, 27.0,
28.0).

> The fruits of Gloria's work became clear in 2024 as much of Gloria’s work was included in the recent [Bitcoin Core 28.0

Reviewer: bit of phrasing duplication
```suggestion
The fruits of Gloria's work became clear in 2024 as many of her projects were included in the recent [Bitcoin Core 28.0
```

code needs work and runs on donations,” and the bottom might be recruiting
somebody to work on Bitcoin Core and looking at PRs together.*"

Her mentorship has had a positive impact on many developers, as Abubakar Ismail articulates:

"*Gloria has been a great mentor, always willing to review PRs and answer
questions. I really appreciate how she organizes and answers questions in the
Bitcoin Core Review Club sessions, and later guided me on how to run some of the
sessions myself. She always makes time for calls to discuss issues and answer
technical questions. I've learned so much from her about the Mempool and other
components of Bitcoin.*"

## Looking Ahead

From her first day as a Brink fellow to her current roles as a Bitcoin Core
maintainer and serving on Brink’s grant committee, Gloria has been a valuable contributor
to Bitcoin development. We’re thrilled to celebrate her four-year epoch with us
and can’t wait to see where her relentless curiosity and dedication lead next.

Gloria, thank you for betting on Bitcoin, and on Brink, all those years ago.
It’s been an incredible ride so far, and we look forward to everything you’ll

> achieve in the years to come.

Reviewer: I'm getting the feels! <3 <3 <3
